---
title: 'Configuration File'
description: 'Overview how to configure Couper with its configuration file.'
---

# Configuration File

The language for Couper's configuration file is [HCL 2.0](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcl/tree/hcl2#information-model-and-syntax), a configuration language by HashiCorp.

## IDE Extension

Couper provides its own IDE extension that adds Couper-specific highlighting and autocompletion to Couper's configuration file `couper.hcl` in Visual Studio Code.

Get it from the [Visual Studio Market Place](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=couper.couperconf) or visit the [Extension repository](https://github.com/avenga/couper-vscode).

## File Name

The file-ending of your configuration file should be `.hcl` to have syntax highlighting within your IDE.

The file name defaults to `couper.hcl` in your working directory. This can be changed with the `-f` command-line flag. With `-f /opt/couper/my_conf.hcl` couper changes the working directory to `/opt/couper` and loads `my_conf.hcl`.

## Basic File Structure

Couper's configuration file consists of nested configuration blocks that configure
the gateway. There are a large number of options, but let's focus on the main structure first:

```hcl
server "my_project" {
  files {
    # ...
  }

  spa {
    # ...
  }

  api {
    access_control = ["foo"]
    endpoint "/bar" {
      proxy {
        backend { }
      }
      request "sub-request" {
        backend { }
      }
      response { }
    }
  }
}

definitions {
  # ...
}

settings {
  # ...
}

defaults {
  # ...
}
```

- `server` main configuration block(s).
- `files` configuration block for file serving.
- `spa` configuration block for Web serving (SPA assets).
- `api` configuration block(s) that bundle(s) endpoints under a certain base path or `access_control` list.
- `access_control` attribute that sets access control for a block context.
- `endpoint` configuration block for Couper's entry points.
- `proxy` configuration block for a proxy request and response to an origin.
- `backend` configuration block for connection to local/remote backend service(s).
- `request` configuration block for a manual request to an origin.
- `backend` configuration block for connection to local/remote backend service(s).
- `response` configuration block for a manual client response.
- `definitions` block for predefined configurations, that can be referenced.
- `settings` block for server configuration which applies to the running instance.
- `defaults` block for default/fallback values.
